Cotton

Perhaps no other natural product has influenced the destiny of humankind as has cotton. It has clothed nations, enslaved men and women, monopolized labor, and given direction to entire industries.

The first historical mention of cotton was in the writings of Herodotus. Writing in 484 B.C., he described trees with fleece growing in them in India. Archeological discoveries have placed the use of cotton in India to 3000 B.C. or earlier. Cotton spread by trade to the Middle East, particularly Egypt, and later, in the seventh and eighth centuries, it was brought to Spain by the Moors.

New World explorers found cotton fabrics being manufactured in Peru, Mexico, and what is now the southwestern United States. Carbon 14 tests have dated the use of cotton in Peru as far back as 2500 B.C.



Wool


Wool forms the protective covering of sheep, screening them from heat and cold, and allowing them to maintain even body temperatures. The following are important characteristics of wool fibers. (1) They are 1-14 in (2.54-35.56 cm) or more in length, with diameters of 1/600th-1/3,000th in (0.04-0.008 mm). (2) Their average chemical compositions are: carbon, 50%; hydrogen, 7%; oxygen, 22-25%; nitrogen, 16-17%; and sulphur, 3-4%. (3) They are extremely flexible and can be bent 20,000 times without breaking. (4) They are naturally resilient. (5) They are capable of trapping air and providing insulation. (6) They absorb up to 30% of their weight in moisture. (7) They are thermally stable, and begin to decompose only at 212°F (100°C).

silk


Silk is a continuous protein filament spun by the silkworm to form its cocoon. The principle species used in commercial production is the mulberry silkworm, which is the larva of the silk moth, Bombyx mori. It belongs to the order Lepidoptera.

Silk and sericulture (the culturing of silk) probably began in China more than 4,000 years ago. The Chinese used silk for clothing, wall hangings, paintings, religious ornamentation, interior decoration, and to maintain religious records. Knowledge of the silkworm passed from China to Japan through Korea. The production of silk transformed the tiny, technologically backward Japanese islands into a world power.

Silk was also passed to Persia and Central Asia where it was encountered by the Greeks. Aristotle was the first Western writer to describe the silkworm. In A.D. 550, the Emperor Justinian acquired silkworm eggs and mulberry seeds, beginning the varieties of silkworms that supplied the Western world with silk for 1,400 years.

After World War II, the women's silk hosiery market, silk's single largest market, mostly was overtaken by nylon.



 
The first category of vegetable fiber is of seed-hair fibers, which includes: cotton, kapok, flosses obtained from seeds, seedpods, and the inner walls of fruit.



What is the importance of photography for society?


Photography services are very much important for society since it helps to diffuse the objective information through the visual capture of certain things as they really are. Professional photographer allows the people to familiarize themselves perfectly with different landscapes and cultures. Studio Lemon is a leading photo studio in Hyderabad, where the top photographers have the power to affect public opinion through the emotional presentation moving images.


stationary


Stationery items are an essential part of any students life. Our ancestors invented these tools so that they can easily pass on the knowledge with help of these stationery items. But the stationery items have evolved significantly from their initial usage to now modified with technology.


  Why is book binding important?


To make books and project reports look good, binding is very important. It also gives an impression that you are not an irresponsible person and care for your hard work and effort spent in making the project report. Binding improves the shelf life of the books and project reports




3d printing benefits to society
Benefits to society
Since 3D printing service reduces the time and effort of the manufacturer to create a prototype, much more emphasis can be done on the research and design of a product. The manufacturers can invest their time in making a flawless product as the production cycle time is reduced